---
layout: post
title: Linux内存管理初探
---

想要管理内存，在开始之前，就应该对内存的布局有所了解。Linux是通过detect_memory函数来获取内存布局(位于arch/x86/boot/memory.c文件中)，detect_memory函数代码如下

int detect_memory(void)
{
    int err = -1;

    if (detect_memory_e820() > 0)
        err = 0;

    if (!detect_memory_e801())
        err = 0;

    if (!detect_memory_88())
        err = 0;

    return err;
}

从上面的代码可以看出，在detect_memory函数内部，又调用了detect_memory_e820、detect_memory_e801、detect_memory_88这3个函数，本文主要针对x86操作系统，因此只分析detect_memory_e820函，代码如下

static int detect_memory_e820(void)
{
	int count = 0;
	struct biosregs ireg, oreg;
	struct e820entry *desc = boot_params.e820_map;
	static struct e820entry buf; /* static so it is zeroed */

	initregs(&ireg);
	ireg.ax = 0xe820;
	ireg.cx = sizeof buf;
	ireg.edx = SMAP;
	ireg.di = (size_t)&buf;

	/*
	* Note: at least one BIOS is known which assumes that the
	* buffer pointed to by one e820 call is the same one as
	* the previous call, and only changes modified fields. Therefore,
	* we use a temporary buffer and copy the results entry by entry.
	*
	* This routine deliberately does not try to account for
	* ACPI 3+ extended attributes. This is because there are
	* BIOSes in the field which report zero for the valid bit for
	* all ranges, and we don't currently make any use of the
	* other attribute bits. Revisit this if we see the extended
	* attribute bits deployed in a meaningful way in the future.
	*/

	do {
		intcall(0x15, &ireg, &oreg);
		ireg.ebx = oreg.ebx; /* for next iteration... */

		/* BIOSes which terminate the chain with CF = 1 as opposed
		to %ebx = 0 don't always report the SMAP signature on
		the final, failing, probe. */
		if (oreg.eflags & X86_EFLAGS_CF)
			 break;

		/* Some BIOSes stop returning SMAP in the middle of
		the search loop. We don't know exactly how the BIOS
		screwed up the map at that point, we might have a
		partial map, the full map, or complete garbage, so
		just return failure. */
		if (oreg.eax != SMAP) {
			 count = 0;
			 break;
		}

		 *desc++ = buf;
		 count++;
	} while (ireg.ebx && count < ARRAY_SIZE(boot_params.e820_map));

	return boot_params.e820_entries = count;
}

从上面的代码可以看出，在detect_memory_e820函数中，通过int 0x15中断来获取内存布局，并将其设置到boot_params.e820_map中，同时用boot_param.e820_entries记录探测到的内存块个数。

